# Triple-Pendulum-Impact-Simulations
Through the use of Python's SymPy library, one can plot and animate the trajectories of the configuration variables of different pendulum systems. More so, this code differs from other pendulum simulation in earier codes through its implementation of an impact condition. In this code, both single and triple pendulums impacts are studied to determine the motion of the systems, yet this description focuses on the more complicated triple pendulum impact. The configuration variables in the triple pendulum system are variables that can describe the position of the three pendulum balls at any point in time. In this case, they are the angles of each leg of the triple pendulum (for further reference, see image on Page 14 under "Problem 5"). This code employs concepts like the euler-lagrange equations and the hamiltonian, which are used to define the acceleration of the configuration variables (aka determine the motion of the system). The focus of this code is in the impact update laws that prompt an update in the motion of the system upon impact. In other words, it alters the derivatives of the configuration variables upon impact, asigning new velocities and accelerations for the angles of the pendulum legs (the three configuration variables). It is important to note that at the instant of impact, the position of the pendulum is the same, so the configuration variables remain the same. It is the derivatives of the configuration variables (velocity and acceleration) that change. 
